>> Jen Kramer: Hello everyone,
my name is Jen Kramer,
welcome to getting started with CSS v2.
In this course, we're going to be
building a single page portfolio
website from the ground up,
using HTML and CSS.
We will be working on the content for that
particular portfolio, we are going to be
building out the sections of that
page using a program called CodePen,
I'll tell you more about that later.
And then we'll move this into VS code,
which is a code editor, and
we'll get this published online
via GitHub and GitHub pages.
And for those of you who know
a little bit about HTML and CSS,
one of the fun things that we'll
add to this is a light/dark theme.
With a switch that's completely CSS
powered that'll switch us back and
forth between two different color themes,
so that'll be a kind of fun thing to add.
The website for this course is
gettingstartedwith.css.education,
and we are ready to get started.
So from the website that's here,
I'll just show you briefly,
there is a link here to the finished site.
If you take a look, this is the website
we'll be building today, and this is the,
of course,
the desktop version of the website,
you can make your screen smaller
to see the mobile version of this.
So you'll see that we have a photo, we
have some information about this person,
you'll see that we have links here
that go to various social media items.
We then have a series of projects, those
projects consist of images, headlines,
information about the project.
And then tags at the bottom indicating
the kind of technologies that were used to
put that together.
And then down towards the bottom
of the page here in the footer,
you can have simple links
that go to other places,
other things that maybe you don't
wanna feature as prominently,
as well as your contact information
down at the bottom of the page.
And then again, up here at the top,
we do have the option of switching
over to a dark theme, how fun is that?
Down here at the bottom
of the course website,
this will give you information about
the background of the course or
the kind of prerequisites that
we're going to be going through.
And I'm just going to start here right at
Chapter 1 if you guys are ready to begin.
So a little bit about what you
should know coming into this course.
And as I just said, we're gonna go through
and build a single page portfolio website.
I strongly encourage all of you
to have your own information,
use your own about information, use your
own photos, feature your own projects.
I'm gonna go through with you how you
might think about that content and
put that together.
Of course, you can use the materials that
I have here for this course as well.
You don't have to follow along exactly
the color scheme that I'm using,
you can change that.
I recommend going to
a website like Adobe Color.
I think Canva has got some color schemes
there's a whole bunch of places online you
can go to get color schemes.
If you're challenged when
it comes to color matching,
you'll probably also wanna have
at least one font that you like.
This course is gonna be using the Inter,
I-N-T-E-R, Inter font that's
available through Google Fonts but
you can choose any font that you like.
I recommend having a photo of yourself and
I'll talk a little bit more about what
that photo should look like, ideally.
And then maybe up to three examples
of your work if you want more,
that's fine too.
And then your social media links,
typically,
you'll include something like LinkedIn and
GitHub.
If you have other media that you
use in a professional manner,
that's recommended as well.
Once again, there's little screenshot
of the site that we're building.
>> Jen Kramer: And then,
in terms of what you should know
before you take this course.
So first of all,
if you do not know a whole lot about
how the internet works or clients and
servers or if any of the terminology that
I talk about today are tripping you up.
I recommend watching
the Internet Fundamentals course,
this completely free course here
through Frontend Masters, and
you can click that link and watch those
videos to come up to speed on that.
I also recommend watching
the Frontend Masters boot camp.
You'll get an introduction to HTML and
CSS there if you are coming into
this with absolutely no background and
coding whatsoever.
And that is completely free to watch as
well, so feel free to take a look at that.
In terms of your technology requirements,
there are very little you'll actually need
in order to follow along with this course.
For our development portion of the course,
we'll actually work in CodePen a lot,
which is something that works
right inside of your web browser,
there's nothing to download.
Later on, we're going to go into VS Code,
which is an industry standard code editor.
If you have other code editors that you
prefer, totally fine to use those instead.
And of course,
as always in web development,
we recommend that you have a couple of
web browsers installed to follow along.
And I've given you links to Firefox and
Chrome as two that are compatible
on both Macs and PCs.
And if you're on a PC, you may also
have Edge, if you're on a Mac,
you may also have Safari.